README.md, before:

# Defining Object Inheritance

## Learning Goals

- Reduce repeated code and enhance objects using inheritance.
  - Define object inheritance in Python.
  - Write classes that inherit from **superclasses**.
- Accomplish complex programming tasks using knowledge from previous modules.

***

## Key Vocab

- **Inheritance**: a tool that allows us to recycle code by creating a class
that "inherits" the attributes and methods of a parent class.
- **Composition**: a tool that enables you to recycle code by adding objects to
other objects. Rather than building on a base class as in inheritance,
composition leverages the attributes and methods of an instance of another class.
- **Subclass**: a class that inherits from another class. Colloquially called
a "child" class.
- **Superclass**: a class that is inherited by another class. Colloquially
called a "parent" class.
- **Child**: another name for a subclass.
- **Parent**: another name for a superclass.
- **`super()`**: a built-in Python function that allows us to manipulate the
attributes and methods of a superclass from the body of its subclass.
- **Decorator**: syntax that allows us to add functionality to an object
without modifying its structure.

***

## Introduction

In the real-world, different entities (people, animals, cars, you name it) are
related in various ways. Within a single entity or group, there exist systems
of classification. For example, the "dogs" entity or category includes pugs,
corgis, labs, etc. All of these breeds share common features because they are
all dogs. But they all have certain unique traits as well.

Another example: you are writing a web application in which users are either
admins, instructors or students. All of these entities are "users" and have
common features, but they all have some unique traits as well.

How can our code reflect that fact that these different categories of things
all share some, or even many, characteristics but all have some unique
attributes as well? Well, we could write separate `Admin`, `Instructor` and
`Student` classes that each contain repetitious code to lend each of these
classes shared attributes and behaviors. We know, however, that repetitive code
is always something to be avoided. Not only is it time consuming, but what
happens when we need to make a change to this shared behavior? We'd have to
code the same change in three places.

Instead, we can use **inheritance**. The use of inheritance allows us to create
a family of classes with shared behavior, while still differentiating those
classes. With inheritance, we could _inherit_ the `Admin`, `Instructor` and
`Student` classes from a `User` class. Then, any changes made to the `User`
class would apply to the other class.

While you may not write your own classes that use inheritance very frequently,
you will encounter it frequently as a developer, particularly when working with
other libraries (such as SQLAlchemy, which you'll learn later in this phase).
Once we introduce the use of databases and the challenge of connecting our
programs to our database, you'll encounter inheritance in nearly every program
you write for the web. More on that later.

***

## What is Inheritance?

In Python, classes can inherit from one another. This means that they adopt all
of the attributes and behaviors (i.e. all of the methods) of the parent, also
called the **superclass**. In this exercise, we'll be building our own chain of
inheritance.

***

## Code Along: Basic Inheritance

In this domain model, we have class `Vehicle` that will act as the **parent**,
or **superclass**. We will create **child** classes, also known as
**subclasses** for different types of `Vehicle`s, such as car.

### Step 1: Defining the Superclass

Open up `lib/vehicle.py`. We're going to define some methods in this parent
class so that our subclasses, when we make them, will have access to them.

```py
class Vehicle:

    def __init__(self, wheel_size, wheel_number):
        self.wheel_size = wheel_size
        self.wheel_number = wheel_number

    def go(self):
        return "vrrrrrrrooom!"

    def fill_up_tank(self):
        return "filling up!"

```

Instances of `Vehicle` initialize with a wheel size and number. We also have
`go()` and `fill_up_tank()` instance methods that describe some common vehicle
behavior.

Go ahead and paste the above Vehicle class code into your Vehicle class, and run
the test suite and you'll see that you are passing all of the tests for the
`Vehicle` class but none of the tests for the `Car` class.

### Step 2: Defining the Subclass

Open up `lib/car.py`. Notice that we are requiring `lib/vehicle.py`. That is
because our `Car` class will need access to the `Vehicle` class and will
therefore need access to the file that contains that class.

Go ahead and define the class in the following way:

```py
class Car(Vehicle):
    pass
```

We use `Vehicle` as an argument for the `Car` class to note that `Car` inherits
from `Vehicle`. Run the test suite again and you'll see that you are passing a
number of tests for the `Car` class.

Wow! We didn't write _anything_ in our `Car` class but instances of `Car` class
_inherit_ all of the `Vehicle` attributes and methods and therefore have access
to them.

<details><summary><em>Which arguments are required to instantiate a new
<code>Car</code> object?</em></summary>
<p>

<h3><code>wheel_size</code> and <code>wheel_number</code></h3>

<p>Remember that the <code>__init__</code> magic method requires that you
use its arguments when instantiating a class.</p>
<p>This includes any subclasses that inherit it!</p>

</p>
</details>
<br/>

We're still failing the `go()` test however. Looks like the test is
expecting the `go()` method on an individual car to return the phrase:
`"VRRROOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOM!!!!!"`. This is different than the return value
of the `go()` method that we inherited from the `Vehicle` class.

Let's overwrite the inherited `go()` method with one specific to `Car`.

### Step 3: Overwriting Inherited Methods

In `lib/car.py`, write the following method:

```py
class Car(Vehicle):
    def go(self):
        return "VRRROOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOM!!!!!"
```

Now, run the tests again and you should be passing all of them.

***

## Class Introspection

How does our above example work? Well, when your program is being executed, at
the point at which the `go()` method is invoked, the interpreter will first look
in the class to which the instance of car that we are calling the method on
belongs. If it finds a `go()` method there, it will execute _that method_. If it
doesn't find such a method there, it will move on to look in the parent class
that this class inherits from.

You can see how Python classes inherit from one another by using Python to do some
_introspection_ on our classes.

Open up the Python shell, and start by importing the files from the `lib` folder:

```py
from lib.vehicle import Vehicle
from lib.car import Car
```

This will let you interact with the code you've written in those files from
within the Python shell.

> NOTE: We'll dive deeper into `import` in the _"Configuring Python
> Applications"_ module.

We can ask the `Car` class what its parent, or "superclass" is (what class the
`Car` class inherits from) with its `__bases__` attribute:

```py
Car.__bases__
# (<class 'lib.vehicle.Vehicle'>,)
```

> NOTE: the `__bases__` attribute is a `tuple`. This is because it shows _all_
> superclasses of the `Car` class. While there is only one here, there are many
> classes that inherit directly from multiple parent classes.

How does this work? How can we access the `__bases__` attribute of our `Car`
class, even though we didn't define it ourselves? The `__bases__` attribute
is available on all Python classes, even built-in ones like the `int` class:

```py
int.__bases__
# (<class 'object'>,)
```

That's because all Python classes share the same metaclass: the
[`type` class](https://realpython.com/python-metaclasses/#:~:text=type%20is%20a%20metaclass%2C%20of,instance%20of%20the%20type%20metaclass.)!

```py
Car.__class__
# <class 'type'>
int.__class__
# <class 'type'>
```

***

## Conclusion

We've seen how to set up inheritance to share behavior from one class to another
using parent classes as arguments in our class definition
(`class Child(Parent)`), which lets the subclass use attributes and methods
that are defined on the parent class. We also discussed how **class
introspection** works in Python, when multiple classes define the same method.

***

## Resources

- [Python 3.8 Documentation](https://docs.python.org/3.8/)
- [Inheritance - Python](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/classes.html#inheritance)
- [Inheritance and Composition: A Python OOP Guide - Real Python](https://realpython.com/inheritance-composition-python/)
- [Python Metaclasses - Real Python](https://realpython.com/python-metaclasses)

Commit message:

Tweak instructions for codealong to fix imports
When I ran those lines of code from the python shell i was getting a ModuleNotFoundError:

```python
File "/Users/dakotamartinez/Development/phase3-python/0501-defining-object-inheritance/lib/car.py", line 1, in <module>
    from vehicle import Vehicle
ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'vehicle'
```
I excited the shell, changed into the lib directory and the imports and was able to get it working as shown.

README.md, after:

# Defining Object Inheritance

## Learning Goals

- Reduce repeated code and enhance objects using inheritance.
  - Define object inheritance in Python.
  - Write classes that inherit from **superclasses**.
- Accomplish complex programming tasks using knowledge from previous modules.

***

## Key Vocab

- **Inheritance**: a tool that allows us to recycle code by creating a class
that "inherits" the attributes and methods of a parent class.
- **Composition**: a tool that enables you to recycle code by adding objects to
other objects. Rather than building on a base class as in inheritance,
composition leverages the attributes and methods of an instance of another class.
- **Subclass**: a class that inherits from another class. Colloquially called
a "child" class.
- **Superclass**: a class that is inherited by another class. Colloquially
called a "parent" class.
- **Child**: another name for a subclass.
- **Parent**: another name for a superclass.
- **`super()`**: a built-in Python function that allows us to manipulate the
attributes and methods of a superclass from the body of its subclass.
- **Decorator**: syntax that allows us to add functionality to an object
without modifying its structure.

***

## Introduction

In the real-world, different entities (people, animals, cars, you name it) are
related in various ways. Within a single entity or group, there exist systems
of classification. For example, the "dogs" entity or category includes pugs,
corgis, labs, etc. All of these breeds share common features because they are
all dogs. But they all have certain unique traits as well.

Another example: you are writing a web application in which users are either
admins, instructors or students. All of these entities are "users" and have
common features, but they all have some unique traits as well.

How can our code reflect that fact that these different categories of things
all share some, or even many, characteristics but all have some unique
attributes as well? Well, we could write separate `Admin`, `Instructor` and
`Student` classes that each contain repetitious code to lend each of these
classes shared attributes and behaviors. We know, however, that repetitive code
is always something to be avoided. Not only is it time consuming, but what
happens when we need to make a change to this shared behavior? We'd have to
code the same change in three places.

Instead, we can use **inheritance**. The use of inheritance allows us to create
a family of classes with shared behavior, while still differentiating those
classes. With inheritance, we could _inherit_ the `Admin`, `Instructor` and
`Student` classes from a `User` class. Then, any changes made to the `User`
class would apply to the other class.

While you may not write your own classes that use inheritance very frequently,
you will encounter it frequently as a developer, particularly when working with
other libraries (such as SQLAlchemy, which you'll learn later in this phase).
Once we introduce the use of databases and the challenge of connecting our
programs to our database, you'll encounter inheritance in nearly every program
you write for the web. More on that later.

***

## What is Inheritance?

In Python, classes can inherit from one another. This means that they adopt all
of the attributes and behaviors (i.e. all of the methods) of the parent, also
called the **superclass**. In this exercise, we'll be building our own chain of
inheritance.

***

## Code Along: Basic Inheritance

In this domain model, we have class `Vehicle` that will act as the **parent**,
or **superclass**. We will create **child** classes, also known as
**subclasses** for different types of `Vehicle`s, such as car.

### Step 1: Defining the Superclass

Open up `lib/vehicle.py`. We're going to define some methods in this parent
class so that our subclasses, when we make them, will have access to them.

```py
class Vehicle:

    def __init__(self, wheel_size, wheel_number):
        self.wheel_size = wheel_size
        self.wheel_number = wheel_number

    def go(self):
        return "vrrrrrrrooom!"

    def fill_up_tank(self):
        return "filling up!"

```

Instances of `Vehicle` initialize with a wheel size and number. We also have
`go()` and `fill_up_tank()` instance methods that describe some common vehicle
behavior.

Go ahead and paste the above Vehicle class code into your Vehicle class, and run
the test suite and you'll see that you are passing all of the tests for the
`Vehicle` class but none of the tests for the `Car` class.

### Step 2: Defining the Subclass

Open up `lib/car.py`. Notice that we are requiring `lib/vehicle.py`. That is
because our `Car` class will need access to the `Vehicle` class and will
therefore need access to the file that contains that class.

Go ahead and define the class in the following way:

```py
class Car(Vehicle):
    pass
```

We use `Vehicle` as an argument for the `Car` class to note that `Car` inherits
from `Vehicle`. Run the test suite again and you'll see that you are passing a
number of tests for the `Car` class.

Wow! We didn't write _anything_ in our `Car` class but instances of `Car` class
_inherit_ all of the `Vehicle` attributes and methods and therefore have access
to them.

<details><summary><em>Which arguments are required to instantiate a new
<code>Car</code> object?</em></summary>
<p>

<h3><code>wheel_size</code> and <code>wheel_number</code></h3>

<p>Remember that the <code>__init__</code> magic method requires that you
use its arguments when instantiating a class.</p>
<p>This includes any subclasses that inherit it!</p>

</p>
</details>
<br/>

We're still failing the `go()` test however. Looks like the test is
expecting the `go()` method on an individual car to return the phrase:
`"VRRROOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOM!!!!!"`. This is different than the return value
of the `go()` method that we inherited from the `Vehicle` class.

Let's overwrite the inherited `go()` method with one specific to `Car`.

### Step 3: Overwriting Inherited Methods

In `lib/car.py`, write the following method:

```py
class Car(Vehicle):
    def go(self):
        return "VRRROOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOM!!!!!"
```

Now, run the tests again and you should be passing all of them.

***

## Class Introspection

How does our above example work? Well, when your program is being executed, at
the point at which the `go()` method is invoked, the interpreter will first look
in the class to which the instance of car that we are calling the method on
belongs. If it finds a `go()` method there, it will execute _that method_. If it
doesn't find such a method there, it will move on to look in the parent class
that this class inherits from.

You can see how Python classes inherit from one another by using Python to do some
_introspection_ on our classes.

First, change directory into the `lib` folder:

```bash
cd lib
```

Then, open up the Python shell, and start by importing the files from the `lib` folder:

```py
from vehicle import Vehicle
from car import Car
```

This will let you interact with the code you've written in those files from
within the Python shell.

> NOTE: We'll dive deeper into `import` in the _"Configuring Python
> Applications"_ module.

We can ask the `Car` class what its parent, or "superclass" is (what class the
`Car` class inherits from) with its `__bases__` attribute:

```py
Car.__bases__
# (<class 'lib.vehicle.Vehicle'>,)
```

> NOTE: the `__bases__` attribute is a `tuple`. This is because it shows _all_
> superclasses of the `Car` class. While there is only one here, there are many
> classes that inherit directly from multiple parent classes.

How does this work? How can we access the `__bases__` attribute of our `Car`
class, even though we didn't define it ourselves? The `__bases__` attribute
is available on all Python classes, even built-in ones like the `int` class:

```py
int.__bases__
# (<class 'object'>,)
```

That's because all Python classes share the same metaclass: the
[`type` class](https://realpython.com/python-metaclasses/#:~:text=type%20is%20a%20metaclass%2C%20of,instance%20of%20the%20type%20metaclass.)!

```py
Car.__class__
# <class 'type'>
int.__class__
# <class 'type'>
```

***

## Conclusion

We've seen how to set up inheritance to share behavior from one class to another
using parent classes as arguments in our class definition
(`class Child(Parent)`), which lets the subclass use attributes and methods
that are defined on the parent class. We also discussed how **class
introspection** works in Python, when multiple classes define the same method.

***

## Resources

- [Python 3.8 Documentation](https://docs.python.org/3.8/)
- [Inheritance - Python](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/classes.html#inheritance)
- [Inheritance and Composition: A Python OOP Guide - Real Python](https://realpython.com/inheritance-composition-python/)
- [Python Metaclasses - Real Python](https://realpython.com/python-metaclasses)
